Content update changes in PHP Coding Standards (#65)
WordPress/wpcs-docs: wordpress-coding-standards/php.md

# PHP Coding Standards

> WordPress aims for a consistent code-style and for complying with established best practices for code readability, clean code, security and interoperability with plugins and themes for all PHP code in the WordPress Core codebase.

Reviewer: I'd love for this line to have more of a slant to recognise that these code standards are for all of the WP community - not just core, and that therefore plugin and theme authors should follow it as well. Right now, it reads to me as "This is what WP core does", rather than "This is what all WP projects should be doing".

Author: We have [WPThemeReview](https://github.com/WPTT/WPThemeReview) standards that the themes team suggested as a baseline for themes, and a lot of plugins are using some more advanced PHP features. In that case, WordPress coding standards (especially those that govern coding style) can be limiting. The first thing that comes to mind is autoloading. Even though you can use classmap, and it's more performant, psr-4 is just hassle-free.

We could add something along the lines of: 

> These coding styles are intended for all WordPress community, and we encourage you to use them in your themes and plugins as well. But they are not mandatory, and if you follow any other coding style that's ok as well.

Does this sound ok?

Reviewer 2: That's maybe a little too loose. I mean I'm all for plugins/themes to use PSR12 if they so choose, but the WPCS rules about best practices, interoperability, translatability and security should still be followed.

Author: > These coding standards are intended for all WordPress community, and we encourage you to use them in your themes and plugins as well. They are not mandatory, and if you follow any other coding style that's ok as well. The coding standards do encompass best practices, interoperability, translatability, and security in the WordPress ecosystem so we recommend you use them for those purposes.

Better?

Reviewer: Might need some emphasis to distinguish the terms "coding style" vs "coding standards.

Author: Emphasis as in bolding some parts or rewording?

Reviewer 2: What about this ? /cc @GaryJones 

> These PHP coding standards are intended for the WordPress community as a whole. They are mandatory for WordPress Core and we encourage you to use them for your themes and plugins as well.
>
> While themes and plugin may choose to follow a different _coding style_, these **_coding standards_** are not just about _code style_, but also encompass established best practices regarding interoperability, translatability, and security in the WordPress ecosystem, so, even when using a different _code style_, we recommend you still adhere to the WordPress Coding Standards with regards to these best practices.

Reviewer: That works for me.

# PHP Coding Standards

These PHP coding standards are intended for the WordPress community as a whole. They are mandatory for WordPress Core and we encourage you to use them for your themes and plugins as well.

> While themes and plugin may choose to follow a different _coding style_, these **_coding standards_** are not just about _code style_, but also encompass established best practices regarding interoperability, translatability, and security in the WordPress ecosystem, so, even when using a different _code style_, we recommend you still adhere to the WordPress Coding Standards with regards to these best practices.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
While themes and plugins may choose to follow a different _coding style_, these **_coding standards_** are not just about _code style_, but also encompass established best practices regarding interoperability, translatability, and security in the WordPress ecosystem, so, even when using a different _code style_, we recommend you still adhere to the WordPress Coding Standards with regards to these best practices.
```

# PHP Coding Standards

These PHP coding standards are intended for the WordPress community as a whole. They are mandatory for WordPress Core and we encourage you to use them for your themes and plugins as well.

While themes and plugin may choose to follow a different _coding style_, these **_coding standards_** are not just about _code style_, but also encompass established best practices regarding interoperability, translatability, and security in the WordPress ecosystem, so, even when using a different _code style_, we recommend you still adhere to the WordPress Coding Standards with regards to these best practices.

While not all code may fully comply with these standards (yet), all newly committed and/or updated code should fully comply with these coding standards.

> Keep the following rules in mind when writing PHP code for WordPress, whether for core programming code, plugins, or themes.

Reviewer 2: Wasn't this removed ? Seems superfluous with the adjusted paragraph above.

If you want to automatically check your code against this standard, you can use the official [WordPress Coding Standards](https://github.com/WordPress/WordPress-Coding-Standards) tooling, which is run using [PHP_CodeSniffer](https://github.com/squizlabs/PHP_CodeSniffer/).

> Also see the [PHP Inline Documentation Standards](https://developer.wordpress.org/coding-standards/inline-documentation-standards/php/) for further guidelines.

Reviewer 2: Should this sentence be _above_ the sentence about the automated tooling ?

Some parts of the WordPress code structure for PHP markup are inconsistent in their style. WordPress is working to gradually improve this by helping users maintain a consistent style so the code can become clean and easy to read at a glance.

Keep the following points in mind when writing PHP code for WordPress, whether for core programming code, plugins, or themes.

See also: [PHP Inline Documentation Standards](https://developer.wordpress.org/coding-standards/inline-documentation-standards/php/).

## Single and Double Quotes

Use single and double quotes when appropriate. If you're not evaluating anything in the string, use single quotes. You should almost never have to escape quotes in a string, because you can just alternate your quoting style, like so:

```php
echo '<a href="/static/link" class="button button-primary">Link name</a>';

> echo "<a href='$link' class='$classname'>$linkname</a>";

Author: I'll address this in a separate PR with only the code changes.

Some parts of the WordPress code structure for PHP markup are inconsistent in their style. WordPress is working to gradually improve this by helping users maintain a consistent style so the code can become clean and easy to read at a glance.

> Keep the following points in mind when writing PHP code for WordPress, whether for core programming code, plugins, or themes. The guidelines are similar to [Pear standards](https://pear.php.net/manual/en/standards.php) in many ways, but differ in some key respects.

Reviewer 2: **[Not directly related to this PR]**: should the PEAR standards still be mentioned ?

Author: This is a good question since in a lot of ways WPCS differs from Pear standards (tabs instead of spaces, class, and function declaration braces are a few that come to mind).

I'm for removal (can be in a separate PR).

Reviewer: Agreed for removing.

See also: [PHP Inline Documentation Standards](https://developer.wordpress.org/coding-standards/inline-documentation-standards/php/).

> ## PHP

Reviewer: Since we no longer have the Credits and Major Changes sections, can we remove this h2, and move all of the h3 headings to h2's? A heading called `PHP` on a page about PHP coding standards seems redundant.

## PHP

### Single and Double Quotes

See also: <a href="https://developer.wordpress.org/coding-standards/inline-documentation-standards/php/">PHP Documentation Standards</a>.
<h2>PHP</h2>
<h3>Single and Double Quotes</h3>
Use single and double quotes when appropriate. If you're not evaluating anything in the string, use single quotes. You should almost never have to escape quotes in a string, because you can just alternate your quoting style, like so:

```php
echo '<a href="/static/link" title="Yeah yeah!">Link name</a>';

> echo "<a href='$link' title='$linktitle'>$linkname</a>";

Reviewer: Can we remove the title attribute, or change it for a class attribute? It's not great for accessibility, and WP core removed title attributes from links years ago. 

Can be a separate PR.

Author: I'll modify this example, it's not a problem 👍🏼

echo "<a href='$link' title='$linktitle'>$linkname</a>";
```

> Text that goes into HTML attributes should be run through `esc_attr()` so that single or double quotes do not end the attribute value and invalidate the HTML, causing a security issue. See [Data Validation](https://developer.wordpress.org/plugins/security/data-validation/) in the Plugin Handbook for further details.

Reviewer: How about:

```suggestion
Text that goes into HTML or XML attributes should be run through `esc_attr()` so that single or double quotes do not end the attribute value and invalidate the HTML, causing a security issue. See [Data Validation](https://developer.wordpress.org/plugins/security/data-validation/) in the Plugin Handbook for further details.
```

Reviewer 2: Should XML attributes be run through `esc_attr()` though ? Or should they use `esc_xml()` ? (I'm honestly not sure, been a while since I looked at these things)

Author: If we add XML, I think we'd need to change this paragraph to be 

```suggestion
Text that goes into HTML or XML attributes should be escaped so that single or double quotes do not end the attribute value and invalidate the HTML, causing a security issue. See [Data Validation](https://developer.wordpress.org/plugins/security/data-validation/) in the Plugin Handbook for further details.
```

I wanted to link escaped to https://developer.wordpress.org/plugins/security/securing-output/, but I noticed that `esc_xml()` is not on that list 🙈

Reviewer 2: Hmm... I just went looking for where that is maintained, but I get the feeling it may be an "old-school" edit directly handbook. Would be worth it getting it updated.

> Closures must not be passed as filter or action callbacks, as they cannot be removed by `remove_action()` / `remove_filter()` (see [#46635](https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/46635 "Improve identifying of non–trivial callbacks in hooks") for a proposal to address this).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Closures must not be passed as filter or action callbacks, as they cannot be easily removed by `remove_action()` / `remove_filter()` (see [#46635](https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/46635 "Improve identifying of non–trivial callbacks in hooks") for a proposal to address this).
```

I wonder whether there's scope there to change that `must not` to `should not`? I can think of cases where, in a closed system (such as a custom theme or a custom plugin - something no distributed to others), using a closure as a action/filter callback would be absolutely fine, because there's no expectation that another piece of code would be trying to remove it.

Reviewer 2: I'm always a bit weary of words like `easily` as they can come across as ablist.

Re: `must not` vs `should not` - another example is test code using filters, which even in the WP Core codebase regularly uses closures. All the same, I remember quite clearly what led to this addition and maybe this is not the best fight to pick at this time.

Author: I'm more in favor of `should not`, especially if we want to change the first paragraph with the inclusion of plugins and themes. Because, in that case, explicitly forbidding it with `must not` would probably warrant a change in WPCS and all the checking tools to add this check. Plus you have mentioned that using a closure is a legitimate way when you really don't want to have something removed by another piece of code.

Reviewer: > I'm always a bit weary of words like easily as they can come across as ablist.

The intent was to convey the complexity of the code needed to achieve the success, and not the ability if the individual. Happy for another word to be used instead of `easily`, but I'd like to see us fix what is currently incorrect.

Reviewer 2: > > I'm always a bit weary of words like easily as they can come across as ablist.
> 
> The intent was to convey the complexity of the code needed to achieve the success, and not the ability if the individual. Happy for another word to be used instead of `easily`, but I'd like to see us fix what is currently incorrect.

In that case, what about this ?

```suggestion
Closures must not be passed as filter or action callbacks, as removing these via `remove_action()` / `remove_filter()` is complex (at this time).
```

Reviewer: Works for me ✅

> );

Reviewer 2: Actually, as there is no output being generated in an obvious way in the code sample, let's just change the `esc_html__()` to `__()`. Otherwise we could be confusing people with the "hang on, escaping should be done late" bit.

<?= $var ?>
```

## Remove Trailing Spaces

Remove trailing whitespace at the end of each line of code. Omitting the closing PHP tag at the end of a file is preferred. If you use the tag, make sure you remove the trailing whitespace.

## Space Usage

Always put spaces after commas, and on both sides of the logical, comparison, string, and assignment operators.

> ```php

Author: I'll address this in a separate PR with only the code changes.

if ( ! $foo ) { ...
```

> [Type casts](https://www.php.net/manual/en/language.types.type-juggling.php#language.types.typecasting) must be lowercase. Always prefer the short form of type casts, `(int)` instead of `(integer)` and `(bool)` rather than `(boolean)`. For float casts use `(float)`.:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[Type casts](https://www.php.net/manual/en/language.types.type-juggling.php#language.types.typecasting) must be lowercase. Always prefer the short form of type casts, `(int)` instead of `(integer)` and `(bool)` rather than `(boolean)`. For float casts use `(float)`:
```

(stray full-stop at the end)

**[Not directly related to this PR]**: should the bit about using `(float)` mention "not `(real)`" ?
People who are not intimately familiar with PHP may not understand why it is mentioned here otherwise.

Author: It would be a good addition, seeing how it was deprecated in PHP 7.4, and removed in PHP 8. I'm for this addition 👍🏼

$x = $foo[$bar]; // incorrect

> ```

Author: They should, I'll address this in a separate PR with only the code changes.

In a `switch` block, there must be no space before the colon for a case statement.

```php

> switch ( $foo ) {

Author: I'll address this in a separate PR with only the code changes.

my_function( ( $x - 1 ) * 5, $y );
```

## Formatting SQL statements

When formatting SQL statements you may break them into several lines and indent if it is sufficiently complex to warrant it. Most statements work well as one line though. Always capitalize the SQL parts of the statement like `UPDATE` or `WHERE`.

Functions that update the database should expect their parameters to lack SQL slash escaping when passed. Escaping should be done as close to the time of the query as possible, preferably by using `$wpdb->prepare()`

`$wpdb->prepare()` is a method that handles escaping, quoting, and int-casting for SQL queries. It uses a subset of the `sprintf()` style of formatting. Example :

> ```php

Author: I'll address this in a separate PR with only the code changes.

$wpdb->query( $wpdb->prepare( "UPDATE $wpdb->posts SET post_title = %s WHERE ID = %d", $var, $id ) );
```

`%s` is used for string placeholders and `%d` is used for integer placeholders. Note that they are not 'quoted'! `$wpdb->prepare()` will take care of escaping and quoting for us. The benefit of this is that we don't have to remember to manually use [`esc_sql()`](https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/functions/esc_sql/), and also that it is easy to see at a glance whether something has been escaped or not, because it happens right when the query happens.

See [Data Validation](https://developer.wordpress.org/plugins/security/data-validation/) in the Plugin Handbook for further details.

### Database Queries

Avoid touching the database directly. If there is a defined function that can get the data you need, use it. Database abstraction (using functions instead of queries) helps keep your code forward-compatible and, in cases where results are cached in memory, it can be many times faster.

> If you must touch the database, get in touch with some developers by posting a message to the [wp-hackers mailing list](https://codex.wordpress.org/Mailing_Lists#Hackers). They may want to consider creating a function for the next WordPress version to cover the functionality you wanted.

Reviewer 2: **[Not directly related to this PR]** Is the hackers mailing list still a thing ? Looks like the last messages are from 2017... Should this be replaced with a mention of Slack ? And if so, what channel ?

Author: My tweet yesterday was aiming at that 😂 

I think that the development questions are discouraged in core slack chats (not sure if there is a specific channel for these sorts of questions). All the development questions should be asked in a forum (https://wordpress.org/support/forum/wp-advanced/)

Reviewer 4: Yeah, hackers list is dead, we can follow up with something along the lines of:
> "If you must touch the database, consider discussing in Slack and creating a Trac ticket..."

$wpdb->query( $wpdb->prepare( "UPDATE $wpdb->posts SET post_title = %s WHERE ID = %d", $var, $id ) );
```

`%s` is used for string placeholders and `%d` is used for integer placeholders. Note that they are not 'quoted'! `$wpdb->prepare()` will take care of escaping and quoting for us. The benefit of this is that it is easy to see at a glance whether something has been escaped or not because it happens right when the query happens.

See [Data Validation](https://developer.wordpress.org/plugins/security/data-validation/) in the Plugin Handbook for further details.

## Database Queries

Avoid touching the database directly. If there is a defined function that can get the data you need, use it. Database abstraction (using functions instead of queries) helps keep your code forward-compatible and, in cases where results are cached in memory, it can be many times faster.

> If you must touch the database, consider creating a [Trac](https://core.trac.wordpress.org/) ticket. There you can discuss the possibility of adding a new function to cover the functionality you wanted, for the next WordPress version. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you must touch the database, consider creating a [Trac](https://core.trac.wordpress.org/) ticket. There you can discuss the possibility of adding a new function to cover the functionality you wanted, for a future version of WordPress. 
```

my-plugin-name.php
```

Class file names should be based on the class name with `class-` prepended and the underscores in the class name replaced with hyphens, for example `WP_Error` becomes:

```php
class-wp-error.php
```

> This file-naming standard is for all current and new files with classes. There is one exception for three files that contain code that got ported into BackPress: class.wp-dependencies.php, class.wp-scripts.php, class.wp-styles.php. Those files are prepended with `class.`, a dot after the word class instead of a hyphen.

Reviewer 2: Should the explicit files mentioned here also be in backticks ? I.e. `class.wp-dependencies.php` ?

**[Not directly related to this PR]**: should BackPress still be mentioned ? Not sure if people will still know what that was...

Author: Tbh, I don't know what BackPress is 🙈 

This is a good suggestion (about adding code backticks to file names) 👍🏼 

Whether we need to mention BackPress 🤷🏼‍♂️ Maybe we can change this to something like:

> The exceptions to the rule are three legacy files: `class.wp-dependencies.php`, `class.wp-scripts.php`, and `class.wp-styles.php`. Those files are prepended with `class.`, a dot after the word class instead of a hyphen.

Reviewer 2: @ntwb @GaryJones Agree to remove it ?

Reviewer: Agree for backticks, and agree for Denis's quoted suggestion 👍🏻

Files containing template tags in `wp-includes` should have `-template` appended to the end of the name so that they are obvious.

```php
general-template.php
```

> ### Only one object structure (class/interface/trait) should be declared per file

Author: Is this a hard rule? I think the addition of `should be` kinda makes the heading more readable 🤷🏼‍♂️

> ### Only one object structure (class/interface/trait) should be declared per file

Reviewer 4: No, just a default setting, can tweak it for longer length, and whilst the actual header line looks fine in the page content, it gets a little gnarly in the index:

<img width="245" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1016458/163974018-e7d5be0a-8e31-47e0-93ca-b7331c8b875f.png">

eat( 'dogfood', 'quickly' );
```

When more words are needed to describe the function parameters, an `$args` array may be a better pattern.

```php

> // Even Better

Author: I'll address this in a separate PR with only the code changes.

// (if field is not empty ) ? (do this) : (else, do this);
```

### Yoda Conditions

```php
if ( true === $the_force ) {
	$victorious = you_will( $be );
}
```

When doing logical comparisons involving variables, always put the variable on the right side and put constants, literals, or function calls on the left side. If neither side is a variable, the order is not important. (In [computer science terms](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Value_(computer_science)#Assignment:_l-values_and_r-values), in comparisons always try to put l-values on the right and r-values on the left.)

In the above example, if you omit an equals sign (admit it, it happens even to the most seasoned of us), you'll get a parse error, because you can't assign to a constant like `true`. If the statement were the other way around `( $the_force = true )`, the assignment would be perfectly valid, returning `1`, causing the if statement to evaluate to `true`, and you could be chasing that bug for a while.

A little bizarre, it is, to read. Get used to it, you will.

> This applies to ==, !=, ===, and !==. Yoda conditions for `<`, `>`, `<=` or `>=` are significantly more difficult to read and are best avoided.

Reviewer 2: Should the comparison operators be enclosed in backticks ? I.e. `==` ?

}
```

The `goto` statement must never be used.

> The `eval()` construct is _very dangerous_ and is impossible to secure. Additionally, the `create_function()` function, which internally performs an `eval()`, is deprecated in PHP 7.2. Neither of these must be used.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `eval()` construct is _very dangerous_ and is impossible to secure. Additionally, the `create_function()` function, which internally performs an `eval()`, is deprecated since PHP 7.2 and has been removed in PHP 8.0. Neither of these must be used.
```

## Error Control Operator `@`

As noted in the [PHP docs](https://www.php.net/manual/en/language.operators.errorcontrol.php):

> PHP supports one error control operator: the at sign (`@`). When prepended to an expression in PHP, any error messages that might be generated by that expression will be ignored.

While this operator does exist in Core, it is often used lazily instead of doing proper error checking. Its use is highly discouraged, as even the PHP docs also state:

> > Warning: Currently the "@" error-control operator prefix will even disable error reporting for critical errors that will terminate script execution. Among other things, this means that if you use "@" to suppress errors from a certain function and either it isn't available or has been mistyped, the script will die right there with no indication as to why.

Reviewer 2: This is actually no longer true as of PHP 8.0. We should maybe rephrase this paragraph.

See:
* https://www.php.net/manual/en/language.operators.errorcontrol.php
* https://www.php.net/manual/en/migration80.incompatible.php

## Don't `extract()`

Per [#22400](https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/22400 "Remove all, or at least most, uses of extract() within WordPress"):

> > `extract()` is a terrible function that makes code harder to debug and harder to understand. We should discourage its [sic] use and remove all of our uses of it.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> `extract()` is a terrible function that makes code harder to debug and harder to understand. We should discourage it's [sic] use and remove all of our uses of it.
```

While "its" is correct English, this is a quote and the `[sic]` indicates that the spelling error is from the original quote, i.e. we should not correct it.

}
```

The `goto` statement must never be used.

> The `eval()` construct is _very dangerous_, and is impossible to secure. Additionally, the `create_function()` function, which internally performs an `eval()`, is deprecated in PHP 7.2. Both of these must not be used.

Reviewer 2: **[Not directly related to this PR]**
This is more a grammar thing - @GaryJones should be able to say what's best, but that last part of the sentence reads weird to me.

```suggestion
The `eval()` construct is _very dangerous_, and is impossible to secure. Additionally, the `create_function()` function, which internally performs an `eval()`, is deprecated in PHP 7.2. Neither of these must be used.
```

### Error Control Operator `@`

As noted in the [PHP docs](https://www.php.net/manual/en/language.operators.errorcontrol.php):

> > PHP supports one error control operator: the at sign (@). When prepended to an expression in PHP, any error messages that might be generated by that expression will be ignored.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> PHP supports one error control operator: the at sign (`@`). When prepended to an expression in PHP, any error messages that might be generated by that expression will be ignored.
```

While this operator does exist in Core, it is often used lazily instead of doing proper error checking. Its use is highly discouraged, as even the PHP docs also state:

> Warning: Currently the "@" error-control operator prefix will even disable error reporting for critical errors that will terminate script execution. Among other things, this means that if you use "@" to suppress errors from a certain function and either it isn't available or has been mistyped, the script will die right there with no indication as to why.

### Don't `extract()`

Per [#22400](https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/22400 "Remove all, or at least most, uses of extract() within WordPress"):

> `extract()` is a terrible function that makes code harder to debug and harder to understand. We should discourage it's [sic] use and remove all of our uses of it.

> Joseph Scott has [a good write-up of why it's bad](https://blog.josephscott.org/2009/02/05/i-dont-like-phps-extract-function/).

Reviewer 2: I think @ntwb mentioned Markdownlint and Remark-lint.

If you like, you can see an example GH Actions setup here: https://github.com/PHPCSStandards/PHPCSUtils/pull/312 This has separate jobs and extensive configuration for both.

Note based on my experience setting that up:
* Getting markdownlint up and running locally in a non-JS project is straight-forward. Using markdownlint-cli2 also allows for all config to go in one config file which gets committed, which is helpful.
* Getting remark-lint running locally in a non-JS project is kind of nightmarish.

> Joseph Scott has [a good write-up of why it's bad](https://blog.josephscott.org/2009/02/05/i-dont-like-phps-extract-function/).

Reviewer 2: (in other words: markdownlint(-cli2) will be most contributor-friendly)

> Joseph Scott has [a good write-up of why it's bad](https://blog.josephscott.org/2009/02/05/i-dont-like-phps-extract-function/).

Reviewer 4: > I've removed the 'changelog' chapter, I think this should be ok.

Is it worth adding what was removed to https://github.com/WordPress/wpcs-docs/blob/master/changelog.md?

Or a wider question, is this file even worth keeping, it adds a bit of a maintenence burden, and maybe Git blame is enough?

> What linter are you using for checking markdown? Can we maybe add it as a GH Action for all the documentation here (in a separate PR of course)?
Yes, that's the plan, I was using Remark, but I've switched to Markdownlint which Gutenberg uses, I'll clean up my code and push it up, and for sure we will add a github action for this too

> Joseph Scott has [a good write-up of why it's bad](https://blog.josephscott.org/2009/02/05/i-dont-like-phps-extract-function/).

Author: Missed the comment where you've mentioned the Remark, sorry 🙈 

Looking forward to the PR with addition of linter here🙂

> Joseph Scott has [a good write-up of why it's bad](https://blog.josephscott.org/2009/02/05/i-dont-like-phps-extract-function/).

Reviewer 4: FYI: The markdownlint setup I have is zero-config, `npm test` is all that's required, so there will be no need for `markdownlint-cli2` etc

> Joseph Scott has [a good write-up of why it's bad](https://blog.josephscott.org/2009/02/05/i-dont-like-phps-extract-function/).

Reviewer 2: Zero-config ? Interesting, though based on my experience and research, not something I'd advise.

markdownlint has a default of `consistent` for a lot of settings, which means it will take the first emphasis marker/bold marker/list marker etc as the "truth" and will demand the rest of the doc follows.
For proper consistent docs, those defaults should be changed as adding a new document, which "happens" to be be scanned first, could otherwise lead to markdownlint demanding all docs to be updated for "consistency".

Also `npm test` does not sound zero-config - I mean: what is in the `test` command ?

> Joseph Scott has [a good write-up of why it's bad](https://blog.josephscott.org/2009/02/05/i-dont-like-phps-extract-function/).

Reviewer 2: > > I've removed the 'changelog' chapter, I think this should be ok.
> 
> Is it worth adding what was removed to https://github.com/WordPress/wpcs-docs/blob/master/changelog.md?
> 
> Or a wider question, is this file even worth keeping, it adds a bit of a maintenence burden, and maybe Git blame is enough?

I vote for removing it as it looks to be barely maintained and missing most actual updates.

Better not to have a changelog file, than to have one which has the same relationship with the truth as some of the political world leaders 😂

> Joseph Scott has [a good write-up of why it's bad](https://blog.josephscott.org/2009/02/05/i-dont-like-phps-extract-function/).

Reviewer 2: Kept the commit message simple, but PR #67 addresses the removing of the changelog file.

## Credits

- PHP standards: [Pear standards](https://pear.php.net/manual/en/standards.php)

### Major Changes

> - November 13, 2013: [Braces should always be used, even when they are optional](https://make.wordpress.org/core/2013/11/13/proposed-coding-standards-change-always-require-braces/)

Reviewer 2: **[Not directly related to this PR]**
I believe there have been changes since 2013, but clearly the changelog was not updated... Maybe that's something else we should have a look at ? Or maybe it should be removed completely ?

Author: In another PR I've started to work on, I've added the mention to your make post. I know some of the things were added in the meantime. I could go through the commits and see what can be pulled from there, but the first commit to this repo is from 2018, so we have a four-year gap.

Removing it is an easier choice IMO. But I'd like to hear what others have to say.

Reviewer: I'd say remove it. Git blame with well articulated PR and commit (and release?) descriptions can show chronological changes, without having to maintain it manually.

> Warning: Currently the "@" error-control operator prefix will even disable error reporting for critical errors that will terminate script execution. Among other things, this means that if you use "@" to suppress errors from a certain function and either it isn't available or has been mistyped, the script will die right there with no indication as to why.
> Warning: Prior to PHP 8.0.0, it was possible for the @ operator to disable critical errors that will terminate script execution. For example, prepending @ to a call of a function that did not exist, by being unavailable or mistyped, would cause the script to terminate with no indication as to why.

### Don't `extract()`
## Don't `extract()`

Per [#22400](https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/22400 "Remove all, or at least most, uses of extract() within WordPress"):

> `extract()` is a terrible function that makes code harder to debug and harder to understand. We should discourage it's [sic] use and remove all of our uses of it.

Joseph Scott has [a good write-up of why it's bad](https://blog.josephscott.org/2009/02/05/i-dont-like-phps-extract-function/).

> 

Reviewer: I wonder if this would be a good place to point to WPCS as a way to help developers enforce all of the above code standards they've just read about?

Author: Good thinking! I like that idea. I can add something like

> If you want to automate the coding standard checks, you can use official [WordPress Coding Standards](https://github.com/WordPress/WordPress-Coding-Standards) with PHP_CodeSniffer script.

Does this sound good?

Per [#22400](https://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/22400 "Remove all, or at least most, uses of extract() within WordPress"):

> > `extract()` is a terrible function that makes code harder to debug and harder to understand. We should discourage its (sic) use and remove all of our uses of it.

Reviewer: The point of the `sic` is to indicate that the original quote had a typo in it, so the changes on this line should be undone.

Author: I missed the square brackets notification in the wiki article, my bad, will undo it 👍🏼
